Corona virus 
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans, in humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), The most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease COVID-19.

COVID-19
COVID-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus, This new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. COVID-19 is now a pandemic affecting many countries globally.


symptoms of COVID-19
The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, dry cough, and tiredness, Other symptoms that are less common and may affect some patients include aches and pains, nasal congestion, headache, conjunctivitis, sore throat, diarrhea, loss of taste or smell or a rash on skin or discoloration of fingers or toes. These symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. Some people become infected but only have very mild symptoms.

self-isolate
Self-isolation is an important measure taken by those who have COVID-19 symptoms to avoid infecting others in the community, including family members, Self-isolation is when a person who is experiencing fever, cough or other COVID-19 symptoms stays at home and does not go to work, school or public places. This can be voluntarily or based on his/her health care provider’s recommendation. However, if you live in an area with malaria or dengue fever it is important that you do not ignore symptoms of fever. Seek medical help. When you attend the health facility wear a mask if possible, keep at least 1 metre distant from other people and do not touch surfaces with your hands. If it is a child who is sick help the child stick to this advice.

be prevented
A vaccine isn't currently available to prevent COVID-19.

wear a mask
The CDC and WHO recommend that people wear cloth face coverings in public when social distancing is difficult. This advice is based on evidence that people with COVID-19 can transmit the virus before they realize they have it, Using masks in public may help reduce the spread from people who don't have symptoms. Non-medical cloth masks are recommended for the public. Surgical masks and N-95 respirators are in short supply and should be reserved for health care providers.

avoid becoming
The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the virus. The CDC and WHO recommend following these precautions:

spread
Data has shown that it spreads from person to person among those in close contact (within about 6 feet, or 2 meters), The virus spreads by respiratory droplets released when someone infected with the virus coughs, sneezes or talks.

avoid coronavirus
The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the virus,The CDC and WHO recommend following these precautions: Keep 6 feet (2 meters) of distance between yourself and people outside your household, 
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol
Cover your mouth and nose with your elbow or a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw away the used tissue,
Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth,
Clean and disinfect surfaces you often touch on a daily basis.